
Jack,

    Here are some suggestions that should help you resolve your daophot
specific problems. Others will have additional comments with respect to the
VXT 2000 which I don't know annything about and VXT3000.

>1. Last week we were able to run PHOT in DAOPHOT, but for some reason it is
>now not working. When the PHOT command is given it prompts for the image name,
> once given it displays a message, "Warning, graphics overlay not available
>for display device." We are running IRAF off of a digital VXT 2000, instead
> of a SUN workstation. Could this be a factor? 

Is the interactive parameter in phot switched on, i.e. set to yes? By
default daophot.phot comes configured with interactive=no, in which
case you should never see the warning messages quoted above. Simply
set interactive to no, and phot should work as before. If this does not
fix the problem then try an "unlearn phot" from with the daophot
package and try things again.

Another rather more obscure possibility is that you have loaded the
testphot.apphotx or digiphot.apphot packages after you have loaded
testphot.daophot.  Phot is set up differently in these packages, by
default interactive is yes, and perhaps you inadvertantly overridden
the phot setup.

>2. We get the same message from PSF as well. I set stdimcur = text and was
> able to do the PSF, but was wondering what it is IRAF wants to display.

Actually this messages (and the one in phot) is harmless. It simply means
that the task cannot draw graphics to the image display. It should however
still be able to read the image cursor (assuming you have a display
which iraf can talk to) and do normal graphics assuming
that your environment is set up correctly. You should not have to
set stdimcur = text if you were not doing so before. Simply ignore the
message.

>3. in an old sample version of login.cl I saw a setting for stdgraph = vt640
>however there is no setting for this in our login.cl files. Is it imporant?

>4. We were able to finish the psf on one image before the PHOT quit working,
>and were wondering if IRAF supports any post-daophot reduction softwareap> phot
>Sorry, for example, for matching up images, and for making c-m diagrams?

IRAF 2.10 will have apphot, daophot and ptools installed in the digiphot
package. There will also be a new photometric calibration package, photcal,
which includeds two tasks, mknobsfile and mkobsfile, for combining
standard star and program star data taken in different filters and
reduced with apphot or daophot.

>Also, We do have Silicon Graphics terminal and a VXT 3100, Are either of these 
>better for running IRAF? And last, are there any new releases of IRAF upcoming?


Someone else in the group will respond to your other questions.
Hope this helps out.

                                           Lindsey Davis
