This file contains suggestions and requirements for changes.

onedspec:
    1.  Package needs to be completely overhauled at some point.
    2.  Have coincidence correction done automatically on input
	rather than running a special task.  This will save considerably
	on image I/O.  Currently COINCOR is a major bottleneck when
	processing a large number of images. (2/9)

combine:
    1.	Phil Massey would like COMBINE to find overlapping regions
	and scale the spectra to a common mean in the overlapping
	region. (2/4)
    2.  Another suggestion is to allow weighting by the signal
	such as pixel value squared. (2/4)

doc:
    Install SENSFUNC memo in the doc directory. (8/14)

sensfunc:
    o Have SENSFUNC produce an air mass vs. fudge graph when doing grey scale
    computation. (8/14)
    o Have SENSFUNC interactively apply a correction to a user specified
    spectrum and allow interating between the calibrated spectrum and the
    sensitivity solution. (Bohannan 2/25/87)

calibrate:
    o Have calibrate apply neutral density filter function.  This may also
    have to be included in STANDARD and SENSFUNC. (2/25/87)

splot:
    SPLOT should look at the cunits. (9/16)
    Add a deblend option form PCYGNI profiles. (Tyson, 3/19/87)

reidentify:
    REIDENTIFY uses the same line as the reference image in a two
    dimensional image even if the image is given explicitly as a
    one dimensional section (8/7).

identify, reidentify:
    Allow a shift to be added to features without centering or dispersion
    solution.  Mentioned by Massey (10/30).

    Allow a shift to be added to features determined from centering but
    without changing the shape of the dispersion solution.  This may be
    tricky. (6/30/87)

setdisp:
    There have been numerous complaints about the documentation because
    of confusion about which axis refers to DISPAXIS. (3/26/87)
From valdes Thu Nov 19 10:14:20 1987
To: iraf
Subject: Tim Heckman's requests for deblending
Cc: lytle /iraf/noao/onedspec/TODO /u2/valdes/iraf/TODO/TODO gjacoby
    pmassey

Tim Heckman (U. Maryland) came by with questions and requests
concerning deblending in SPLOT.  Tim's comments are indicated in
quotations.

1. "The SPLOT documentations indicates that it is possible to deblend
lines using independent widths."  This actually means the programmer
can change the code to do this if there is a demand, not that the
user can set the program to do this.

2. "The deblending should allow additional constraints if known.
Specifically fixing the ratios of lines based on atomic physics."

3.  "The deblending should provide some uncertainty estimates."  I added
that there has also been a request to use known statistics in the
pixel data themselves to generate uncertainty estimates.

4.  "It would be useful to provide other choices for the profile rather
than just gaussians."

First, note that I have made some changes in V2.6 IRAF to make the
deblending more stable and to fix problems causing frequent crashes in
the task.

SPLOT is intended as a general interactive tool for low dispersion
spectra.  The deblending could be improved somewhat but it should not
become a complex task with many options.  This should be provided by a
new task specialized for this purpose.  We are investigating a new
task/package based on the KPNO DECOMP program developed by Jim Brault
for high dispersion spectra.  This would provide at least the ability
to use more complex profiles.  Whether this would provide the high
powered deblending tools useful for moderate resolution spectra or
whether a new related task in ONEDSPEC is needed will have to be
determined.

These requests for changes in ONEDSPEC will be logged but realistically
they will probably not be implemented for quite a long time unless
demand or manpower availability changes.  The DECOMP project is
currently being explored.  Contact Dyer Lytle (lytle@noao) for the
latest.

o Modify REBIN to allow specification of ending wavelength.  Also
  don't actually rebin if close the desired wavelength.  Possibly
  merge the function of SFLIP and SEXTRACT.
