This is the vacuum telescope package revisions file.

mkpkg
    Added some missing file dependencies and removed unnecessary ones from
    the mkpkg file. (9/30/99, Davis)

doc/dicoplot.hlp
doc/readvt.hlp
doc/unwrap.hlp
doc/pimtext.hlp
    Fixed minor formating problems.  (4/22/99, Valdes)

=======
V2.11.1
=======

May 16, 1989 by Dyer Lytle mods to 'readvt', 'syndico', and 'mscan'

Fixed readvt to work with tape drives over the network [(if (mtfile(...].
Modified syndico to take advantage of the disk-center info in the image
header.

Modified mscan to be much faster by taking out the geometrical correction.
Also simplified it by removing the date/time pimtext call.  Also made it
create only the images needed.  Also made it have a short file name option.
Also made it work on tape drives over the net.


June 5, 1988 by Dyer Lytle modification to PUTSQIB

PUTSQIB had code in it for triming the limb as well as merging the two
images.  I simplified the program to just make the merge.  The task TRIM
can be used to trim the limb, and do a better job of it at that.

September 29, 1987 by Dyer Lytle add SYNDICO to package

Added this new program for makeing dicomed prints of daily
grams 18 cm across.

July 17, 1987 by Dyer Lytle fix bug in numeric.x

There was a bug in the way an error flag was being set that made
the program fail with a 'divide by zero' error on some data sets.

June 8, 1987  by Dyer Lytle  Overhaul of the package

Major modifications were made to the code to make it conform to IRAF
standards.  Dynamic memory allocation replaced fixed memory allocation
in many places.  Readvt was modified to accept templates for input
and output file names.  New structures were provided for the vacuum
telescope header, the tapeio buffer, and to reduce the argument count
for the subroutine 'numeric'.  Vtfix was dropped from the package
since 'readvt' was modified to check for long records by doing its
own buffering.  Unwrap was updated to a new, more general and powerful
version.  A major bug was found and fixed in 'rmap' which was causing
the total mapped pixel count to be off by about 20%.

June 10, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification of PIMTEXT

Pimtext was modified to allow the user to magnify the text in x and/or y
and to get the date and/or time from a reference image if desired.

May 21, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Addition of PIMTEXT to package

Pimtext was added to the vacuum telescope package.  This program allows
the user to insert text directly into images.  The default action of the
program is to look up the date and time in the image headers and insert
this information in the lower left corner of each image.  The user can
modify the parameters to write any text string.

May 15, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to Mscan

Mscan was modified to write the date and time into the images using
a pixel font.  A hidden argument controls this option.  The characters
are written into the image itself to speed up the moviemaking process.
Various hidden parameters were added to allow the user to specify
things about the text such as postition, pixel value, background fill,
and background value.

May 7, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to Makeimages and Destreak5

Makeimages and Destreak5 were modified to accept as another argument
the input scratch disk on which the input files are to be expected.

February 19, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to Fitslogr

Rfits was changed to produce a short header by default instead of
a long header.  I changed fitslogr to force the long header it needs.

February 6, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to Dicoplot

Dicoplot was plotting all of the dates in the input image header
file.  Sometimes, this list includes dates which should appear
off the plot, before the zero or after the 360 degree marks.
The modification involved teaching the program to dump these
extra dates instead of putting them on the plots.

January 30, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to vtfix

Vtfix was originally set up to correct extra long records on
vacuum telescope tapes.  It looked to record lengths of 10242
bytes and truncated them to 10240 bytes.  Today I found a tape
with lots of different record lengths all larger than 10240 so
I modified vtfix to look for records with lengths longer than
10240 bytes and truncate them to 10240.

January 29, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to makehelium.

Makehelium was modified to automatically delete the absolute
value image output from RMAP since this image is junk anyway.

January 29, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Bug fix and mods to dicoplot.

Dicoplot had a bug which caused the Ratio (POLARITY) images to
come out zero.  This was corrected.  Also some of the constants
in GREYMAP were changed to increase the contrast in the weights
image and in the abs. flux image.  The greyscale as drawn on the
images was modified to not have white boxes around each grey level
and to have the number associated with each grey level printed on the
plot.

January 28, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modifications to mscan.

Mscan was using too much memory when processing large images.
This was causing a lot of page fault errors on VMS.  A modification
was made to mscan to use fixed size subrasters, decreasing the
memory needs drastically.

January 20, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modifications to readss4.x.

Readss4, which is a subroutine called by mscan to read type 4
sector scans was set up to add the average field to each pixel
of the output image.  This was found to be useful only in the
special case of type 4 intensity scans and was removed.
"It wasn't a BUG, it was a FEATURE!"

January 20, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modifications to destreak.x.

Destreak was set up to use a temporary image for data storage
between the two destreaking passes.  The temporary image was
hardwired into the name "tempim".  This was found to unacceptable
since two or more destreaking jobs run at the same time would have
a collision at "tempim".  The temporary image was made into an input
parameter.

January 20, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modifications to CL scripts.

The CL scripts makeimages.cl, makehelium.cl, destreak5.cl, and
writetape.cl were modified to check for the existence of each file
before it tries to use it.  An error message is output if an image
cannot be accessed.

January 20, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to vtblink.cl

Vtblink was modified so that the command "stat" can be entered to the
"next image" prompt and the script will list which images are loaded
into which IIS memory plane.

January 20, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to merge.x

Merge was not set up to handle the differences between the magnetogram
reduction and the 10830 reduction.  Magnetogram data has three(3) images
per day and 10830 data has two(2) images per day.  The extra image for
magnetogram data is the absolute value immage.  Merge was designed to
expect all three images and to produce four(4) output images.  When
10830 data is input merge should expect two input images per day and
only produce two output images.  This modification was made.
Also the output images were set up such that the data and absolute
value images were output without being divided by the weight image.
This was changed since no information is lost by doing this division
since the weight image is also saved.  Merge was also restructured
quite a bit but is still a mess and needs rewriting, but it works.

January 20, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to rmap.x

Rmap was changed to calculate the average field, the average absolute
field, and the total number of pixels for each gram reduced.
These parameters are stored in the reduced data image header as
MEAN_FLD, MEANAFLD, and NUM_PIX.

January 10, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Bug fix in tcopy.

Tcopy was reporting errors incorrectly.  The record number identified
with the error was one less than the actual error record.

January 10, 1986  by Dyer Lytle  Modification to decodeheader.x.

Changed the format used by decodeheader to print out the date and time,
the format was of variable width depending on the size of the number printed.
The new format has fixed length fields.

January 9, 1986   by Dyer Lytle   Modification to merge.

Merge was modified to expect the images in the textfile 'mergelist' to be in the
order (data, abs value, weights) instead of (data, weights, abs value).

January 3, 1986   by Dyer Lytle   Correction to dicoplot.

Dicoplot had, for some integer expressions, TRUE/FALSE instead of YES/NO.
This works fine on the UNIX system but was found to fail on VMS.

January 3, 1986   by Dyer Lytle   Correction to mscan.

Mscan was not reading type one(1) area scans properly.  The error occurred
in readss1 where a temporary array was being salloced with the wrong length.
The correction involved replacing "ny" by "2*ny".
Also, readss1 and readss3 had a rather contrived error recovery mechanism built
in, I removed this and will add a more general and reliable error procedure
based on the fset(VALIDATE) call in a later revision.
