AUTOGRAPH -- This directory contains the contents of the NCAR file
autograph.f, unpacked one subroutine per file.  Here is the revision file 
supplied by NCAR for the autograph package.  For NOAO specific enhancements, 
see gio$ncarutil/README.

 Revision history:

 February, 1979   Added a revision history and enhanced machine
                  independency.

 September, 1979  Fixed a couple of problems which caused the code to
                  bomb when core was pre-set to indefinites and the
                  1st graph drawn was peculiar in some way and another
                  which caused it to set the default dashed-line-speci-
                  fier length wrong.  Added new documentation.

 October, 1979    Changed the way IDIOT behaves when NPTS is negative.

 March, 1980      Fixed a couple of small errors, one which prevented
                  an error exit in AGSETP from ever being reached and
                  another which caused AUTOGRAPH to blow up when given
                  a zero or negative on a logarithmic axis.  Changed
                  the way in which NBPF is computed by AGSTR1.

 August, 1981     Removed all calls setting the plotter intensity and
                  made the computation of the variable SMRL portable.

 April, 1984      Made the code strictly FORTRAN-77 compatible, taking
                  out all dependency on support routines (such as LOC).
                  This required some changes in the user interface.

 February, 1985   Put code in AGSETP to reclaim character-store space
                  used by character-string dash patterns when they are
                  redefined using binary patterns.  Also changed AGGTCH
                  to return a single blank for a non-existent string.

 August, 1985     Put code in AGGETP so that the label-name identifier
                  is now returned properly.  Among other things, this
                  cures a problem which caused the character-storage
                  space to be eaten up.

 December, 1985   Fixed AGSETP to zero the current-line pointer when
                  the current-label pointer is changed.

 January, 1986    Fixed AGAXIS to respond properly to the zeroing of
                  NCIM by AGCHNL.
